Tagging problem : Input : Word Sequence( eg: the dog saw a cat) and Output: Tag sequence(D N V D N) 

HMM Model for POS Tagging : Probabilistic Generative Model
1. Given word only depends on the given tag
2. Given tag only depends on the previous tag
Pr(t1...tn | W1....Wn) = π Pr(Wi|ti).Pr(ti|ti-1)
“Hidden” means the exact sequence of states (a sequence of POS tags) that generated the observation (a sequence of words) are hidden

3 main ideas in HMMs:
1. Likelihood => Forward Algorithm
2. Decoding -> Viterbi Algorithm( DP algorithm , O(N^2 * T) , Uses a trellis)
3. Learning -> Forward / Backward Algorithm

Likelihood : Due to the Markov assumption, the probability of being in any state at any given time t only relies on the probability 
of being in each of the possible states at time t−1.

Generative vs Discriminative models
-------------------------------------
Generative models are based on Joint distribution - P( Y , X )
Discriminative models are based on Conditional distribution - P( Y | X)

Discriminative models can incorporate rich features which can have long range dependencies. For example, in POS tagging 
we can incorporate features like capitalization of the word, syntactic properties of the neighbour words, and others like 
location of the word in the sentence. Having such features in generative models generally leads to poor performance of the models.

Maximum Entropy Markov Models( Log linear models) are generative models( so are Conditional Random fields).
MEMM is for solving the problems of HMM. It gives full observation of sequence to every state, which make the model more experssive 
than HMM. It is also a discriminative model, since it completely ignores modeling P(X) and the learning objective function consistent 
with predictive function: P(Y |X). But MEMM has the label bias problem, which means a preference for states with lower number of transitions
over others. To avoid this problem, one solution is not normalizing probabilities locally. This improvement gives us the conditional random field (CRF)
